And while Abraham was pursuing his journey with his son Isaac, behold Satan came and ‎appeared to Abraham in the figure of a very old man, of a very modest and humble spirit. And ‎
        approaching Abraham he said unto him: Art thou a fool or an idiot that thou goest to do such a ‎thing this day and even to thy only son? For behold the Lord had given him unto thee in 
            the last of thy days and in thy old age, and now wilt thou go and slaughter him without any wrong ‎action of his, and destroy the life of thy only son? Knowest thou not, and hast thou 
            not heard ‎of it, that such a thing could never have come from the Lord, for the Lord hath never done ‎unto man a great evil like this upon the earth to say unto a man go and slay thy 
            son? And ‎Abraham hearing these words knew at once that it was the voice of Satan who attempted to ‎lead him astray from the way of the Lord, and Abraham refused to hearken to the voice 
        of ‎Satan. And Abraham rebuked him severely and Satan went away from him. And Satan soon ‎returned and came to Isaac, appearing unto him in the guise of a young man of good figure ‎and 
        pleasant looks. And he approached Isaac and said unto him: Knowest thou or hast thou ‎heard of it, that thy old and foolish father carries thee to the slaughter to-day without any ‎
            cause? And now, my boy, do not listen unto him and do not obey him, for he is old and foolish, ‎and do not suffer thy precious life and thy handsome person to perish from the earth. And 
        ‎when Isaac had heard these words he turned unto Abraham saying: Hast thou heard, oh, my ‎father, the words of this man, such and such are his remarks. And Abraham answered unto his ‎son 
        Isaac saying: Beware of him my son, do not listen unto his word and pay no attention unto ‎him, for that is Satan, who is resolved to turn us this day from following the commandments of 
            ‎our Lord. And Abraham rebuked Satan once more, and he went away from them. And when ‎Satan saw that he could not succeed in that manner, he disappeared suddenly and went on ‎before them 
        on their road, and changed himself into a mighty river full of water on the road. ‎And when Abraham and Isaac and his two young men reached that place they saw a river, ‎large and very 
        powerful like unto the mighty waters. And they went into the river, the waters ‎of which reached up to their legs and they passed on through it. But the waters grew always ‎deeper and 
        reached finally to their necks, when they were all terrified on account of the ‎water. And as they passed on Abraham at once recognized the place, and Abraham knew that ‎there hath never 
        been a river before on that place. And Abraham said unto his son Isaac: I ‎know this place well and there hath never been before neither a river nor any water, and it is ‎only the work 
            of Satan, who is doing these things in order to turn us this day from the ‎commandments of the Lord. And Abraham rebuked Satan saying unto him: May the Lord ‎rebuke thee, oh Satan, get 
                thee behind us for we are following the order of our Lord. And ‎Satan became terrified at Abraham's voice and he departed from them,