And He said: Take, please, your son, etc. 22:2. Said God to him: Take, I beg you" — please —Your son. Which son? I have two sons he said. Your only son, replied He. 
            This one is the only one of his mother, and this one is the only one of his mother. The one you love—Is there a limit to the affections? Itzchak said He. And why did God 
            not reveal it to him without delay? In order to make him [Itzchak] even more beloved in his eyes and reward him for each and every word spoken. This agrees with the opinion of 
            Rabbi Yohanan, who said: Get out of your country Gen. 12:1 means from your province; And from your kindred Gen. 12:1—from your neighborhood; And from your father’s 
                house(Gen. 12:1)—literally your father’s house. To the land that I will show you Gen. 12:1. Why did He not reveal it to him there and then? In order to make it more beloved 
            in his eyes and to reward him for each and every word said, and for each and every step taken. Rabbi Levi b. Hayata said: ‘Get you’ is written twice, and we do not know which was 
                more precious [in the eyes of God] the first or the second. But when it is written, And get you to the land of Moriah 22:2 it follows that the second occasion was more 
                precious than the first. And go yourself to the land of Moriah Rabbi Chiya Raba and Rabbi Yanai [disagree]: one says to the place from which instruction hora’ah goes out to 
                    the world, and the other says to the place from which awe yirah goes out to the world. Similarly regarding the Holy of Holies devir, Rabbi Chiya and Rabbi Yanai [disagree]: 
            one says from the place from which the commandments dibra’ot go out to the world, and one says from the place from which speech dibur goes out to the world. Similarly 
            regarding the ark aron, Rabbi Chiya and Rabbi Yanai [disagree]: one says to the place from which the light ha’orah goes out to the world, and one says to the place where awe 
                yirah goes out to the world. Rabbi Yehoshua ben Levi said that from there the Holy One instructs [mor'eh] the nations of the world and brings them down [moridam] to Gehinnom. 
            Rabbi Shimon bar Yochai said, to the place which is aligned [ra'ui] with the Holy Temple above. Rabbi Yudan said, to the place where there will be an appearance [mar'eh] to you. 
            Rabbi Pinchas said, to the place of the Master [marvatah] of the World. The Rabbis said, to the place where the incense is offered – this is what it says “…I will go to the 
                mountain of myrrh and to the hill of frankincense.” Shir HaShirim 4:6 And offer Him there as a burnt-offering Gen. 22:2. Rabbi Yudan bar Simon said: He [Avraham] said to 
                    Him: ‘Master of the Universe! Can there be a sacrifice without a priest?’ The Holy One of Blessing replied ‘I have already appointed you to be a priest’ as it is written, You 
                        are a priest for ever Ps. 110:4. On one of the mountains which I will tell you of Gen. 22:2. Rabbi Huna said in the name of Rabbi Eliezer the son of Rabbi Yosei HaGelili: 
            The Holy One of Blessing first places the righteous in doubt and suspense, and then reveals to them the real meaning of the matter, as it is written "to the land that I will show 
                you Gen. 12:1; On one of the mountains which I will tell you; And make to it the proclamation that I bid you Jonah 3:2; similarly, Arise, go out into the plain and I will 
                    there speak with you Ezek. 3:22.