Another explanation: Rabbi Itzchak said, At the time that Avraham sought to bind Itzchak, his son, [the latter] said to him, Father, I am a young man and I am concerned lest my 
            body shake from fear of the knife and I will trouble you, and lest the slaughtering will be invalid and it will not be considered a sacrifice for you. Rather, tie me very well. 
            Immediately, and he bound Itzchak. Could he really tie up a man of thirty-seven (a different version: of twenty six years)? Rather, it was with his agreement. Immediately. And 
                Avraham sent his hand. He sends his hand to take the knife and his eyes brings down tears and the tears fall onto the eyes of Itzchak from the mercy of his father. And 
            nonetheless, the heart was happy to do the will of his Maker. And the angels gathered in many groups above them. What did they yell out? The ways have become desolate, the 
                wayfarer has ceased; He has rescinded His covenant; He has become disgusted with the cities Isaiah 33:7 – He does not desire Jerusalem and the Temple that he had in mind to 
            bequeath to the children of Itzchak. 'He did not consider a man' – merit did not stand Avraham well: 'No creation has importance in front of Me.'
            Rabbi Acha said, Avraham started to wonder, These words are only words of wonder. Yesterday, you told me Genesis 21:12, Because in Itzchak will your seed be called. And 
                [then] you went back and said, "Please take your son." And now You say to me, "Do not send your hand to the youth." It is a wonder! The Holy One, blessed be He, said, 'Avraham, 
                    I will not profane My covenant and the utterances of My lips, I will not change Psalms 89:35 – When I said, "Please take your son," I did not say, "slaughter him," but 
                    rather, "and bring him up." For the sake of love did I say [it] to you: I said to you, "Bring him up," and you have fulfilled My words. And now, bring him down.’ [A different 
                version: They said a parable about a king that said to his friend, Bring up your son to my table. His friend brought him up and his knife was in his hand. The king said, And 
                    did I say to you, "Bring him up to eat him?" I said to you, "Bring him up" – [and this was] because of [the king's] love.) This is [the meaning of] what is written Jeremiah 
                        19:5, it did not come up on My heart – that is Itzchak.]