R. Isaac said: "A year which is poor (Israel appears humble) in the beginning, will be
            rich in the end (Israel's request will be granted). What is the reason for it? For it is
            written (Deut. 11, 12) From the beginning of the year even unto the end of the year;
            i.e., there are two parts in a year, the beginning and the end." (Ib. b) K. Isaac said
            again: "A man is judged only according to his deeds at the time of sentence; as it is
            said (Gen. 21, 17) God heard the voice of the lad, as he then was." Another thing R.
            Isaac said: "Three things cause a man's record of sins to be recalled. Three occasions
            cause the sins of man to be brought to mind : a threatening wall, calculating during
            prayer, and one who appeals to the Lord for judgment on his neighbor; for R. Chanin
            said: 'Whoever appeals to the Lord for judgment on his neighbor is first punished; as we
            find in the case of Sarah, who said (Gen. 16, 5) I suffer wrong through thee, may the
            Lord judge between me and thee. And shortly after this we read (Ib. 23, 2) And Abraham
            came to mourn Sarah and to weep for her.'" Another thing said R. Isaac: "Four things
            cause an evil decree which is passed on man to be torn (annulled). They are charity,
            prayer, change of name and change of conduct: Charity, as it is written (Prov. 10, 2)
            Charity delivereth from death; prayer, as it is WTitten (Ps. 97, 19) They cry unto the
            Lord when they are in distress, and He saveth them out of their afflictions; change of
            name, as it is written (Gen. 17, 15) As for Sarai, thy wife, thou shalt not call her
            name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be: and the text continues saying: Then will I
            bless her, and give thee a son also, because of her change of conduct; as it is written
            (Jonah 3, 10) And God saw their works that they had turned from their evil ways; and
            immediately following: And God bethought Himself of the evil He had said He would do
            unto them, and He did it not." Some add also the change of location ; as it is said
            (Gen. 12, 1-2) And God said to Abraham, get thee out from thy land [and afterwards] I
            will make of thee a great nation. But the former authority claims that the latter one
            was on account of the merits of the land of Israel.