...The sun rises and goes down"
                    Ecclesiastics 1:5. Rabbi Aba bar Kahana said: Don't we know that the sun
            rises and goes down? Rather this is what it means: When the Holy One of Blessing causes the sun of a
            righteous person to set, he causes the sun of his fellow to shine forth. The day that
                Rabbi Akiba died, our rabbi (Judah the Prince) was born and
            it was written about him "The sun rises and the sun goes down." On the day that our
            rabbi died Rabbi Ada Bar Ahava was born and it was written about him "The sun rises and
            the sun goes down." On the day that Rabbi Ada Bar Ahava died, Rabbi Avin was born and it
            was written about him "The sun rises and the sun goes down." On the day that Rabbi Avin
            died, his son Rabbi Avin was born. The day that Rabbi Avin died, Aba Hoshaya from Traya
            was born. The day that Aba Hoshaya died Rabbi Hoshaya was born and it was written about
            him "The sun rises and the sun goes down." Before the sun of Moses set the sun of Joshua
            shone forth as it is written, "God said to Moses, take Joshua Son of Nun" (Numbers
            27:18). Before the sun of Joshua set the sun of Itaniel son of Kenaz shone forth as it
            is said, "Itaniel son of Kenaz took it" (Judges 1:13). Before the sun of Eli the priest
            set, the sun of Samuel shone forth, "the lamp of God had not yet gone out and Samuel lay
            on the sanctuary of God" (1 Sam 3:3). Rabbi Yochanan said, "like a perfect calf." Before
            the God causes the sun of Sarah to set, he causes the sun of Rebecca to shine forth. For
            first it says "Behold Malkah also bore children" (Gen 22:20) and after "and the life
            Sarah was one hundred years..." Rabbi Akiva was once sitting and lecturing, and the community [his students] was falling
            asleep. To arouse them, he said: How could Esther rule over one hundred and twenty seven
            provinces? It should be that Esther, a descendant of Sarah who lived to one hundred and
            twenty seven, to rule over one hundred and twenty seven provinces. And Avraham came to eulogize Sarah-From where did he come? Rabbi levi said: He came to
            Sarah from the burial of Terach. Rabbi Yossi said to him: And did not the burial of
            Terach precede the burial of Sarah by two years?! Rather, from where did he come? From
            Mount Moriah.