AND SARAH SAID: GOD HAS MADE JOY FOR ME; EVERY ONE THAT HEARS WILL REJOICE WITH ME (Gen.
            21:6). R. Berekiah, R. Judah b. R. Simon, and R. Hanan in the name of R. Samuel b. R.
            Isaac said: If Reuben has cause to rejoice, what does it matter to Simeon? Similarly, if
            Sarah was remembered, what did it matter to others? But when the matriarch Sarah was
            remembered [gave birth], many other barren women were remembered with her; many deaf
            gained their hearing; many blind had their eyes opened, many insane became sane. For
            ‘making’ [HAS MADE] is mentioned here, and also elsewhere, viz. And he made a release to
            the provinces (Est. II, 18). As the making mentioned there means that a gift was granted
            to the world,l so the making mentioned here means that a gift was granted to the world.
            R. Levi said: She increased the light of the luminaries: ‘making’ is mentioned here,
            viz. GOD HAS MADE FOR ME, while elsewhere it says, And God made the two lights (Gen. I,
            16). AND SARAH SAW THE SON OF HAGAR THE EGYPTIAN etc - Rabbi Shimeon bar Yohai said: Rabbi
            Akiva used to interpret this to his [Ishmael’s] shame, Rabbi Akiba lectured: AND SARAH
            SAW [THE SON OF HAGAR THE EGYPTIAN, WHOM SHE HAD BORNE TO AVRAHAM, MAKING SPORT.] Now
            'making sport' refers to nothing else but sexual immorality, as in the verse, "The
            Hebrew servant, whom you have brought to us, came in to make sport of me. (Gen. 39:17).
            This teaches that Sarah saw Ishmael ravish maidens, seduced married women and dishonored
            them. R. Ishmael taught: This term 'making sport' refers to idolatry, as in the verse,
            "And the people sat to eat and drink and got up to make sport' (Exodus 32:6). This
            teaches that Sarah saw Ishmael build altars, catch locusts, and sacrifice them. R.
            Eleazar said: The term 'making sport' refers to bloodshed, as in the verse, "Let the
            young men, please, arise and make sport before us" (II Sam. 2:14) Rabbi Azariah said in
            Rabbi Levi’s name: Ishmael said to Isaac: 'Let us go and see our pieces in the field'
            and he would pick up the bow and shoot arrows, aiming in Itzchak's direction, while
            pretending to be playing (making sport), as it is written: "as a madman who casts
            fire-brands, arrows, and death; so is the man that deceives his neighbor, and said: 'I
            am just joking (making sport)'. And I [Rabbi Shimon bar Yochai] say that this is to be
            interpreted to the praise [of Ishmael]. This expression of making sport is only used as
            'inheritance'. In the moment that Itzchak our father was born all were happy. Ishmael
            said to them: are you dumb? I am the first-born, I am going to receive double portion
            [of the inheritance], that from the answer of Sarah our mother to Avraham 'because the
            son of this maidservant will not inherit with my son, with Itzchak' you learn that he
            would not inherit 'with my son' - even if he wasn't Itzchak - and 'with Itzchak' - even
            if he wasn't my son. All the more so [this is true] 'with my son, with Itzchak'.