R. Dusthai, of the city of Biri, lectured: "Unto what may be likened the system of David's praver ?"
            "Unto a peddler who wanted to sell out his stock little by
                little. He said before the Holy One, praised be He!
                        Ps. 19,13-15
                'Sovereign of
                        the Universe, who can guard against errors?' And he was
                answered, 'They will be forgiven.'
                
                    Ib.
                'From secrets faults do Thou cleanse
                    me.'
                 'They will be forgiven.'
                Ib.
                'Also from presumptuous sins withhold Thy
                    servants.'
                'This will also be forgiven.'
                Ib.
                'Let them not have dominion over me,'
                i.e., the Rabbis shall not talk about me. 'This will also be allowed to you.'
                Ib.
                'Then shall I be blameless,' i.e., my
                sins shall not be written. And he was answered, 'This is
                    impossible, for, if the Yud which I took away from the
                    name of Sarai complained before me several
                    years, until Joshua came and I added it to his
                    name, as it is said Num. 13,
                        16
                    And Moses called Hoshea; the son of Nun, Joshua, how much more
                    will there be complaints if I omit a whole portion of the Torah?'
                Ps. 19
                Clear from any great transgression, i.e., He said
                before him : 'Sovereign of the Universe, forgive me the whole
                    sin.' And he was answered, 'It is revealed before Me what Solomon, thy son, will say in his wisdom in the
                    future Pr. 6, 27-30
                    Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his
                        clothes not be burnt? Or can one walk upon hot coals, and shall his feet not
                        be scorched? So he that goeth in to his neighbor's wife; whosoever touches
                        her shall not go unpunished.' He then exclaimed, 'If so, then I am lost.' And he was answered : 'Accept affliction upon thyself.'
                Immediately David accepted affliction upon
                himself."
            R. Juda said in the name of Rab : "Six months was David afflicted
                with leprosy; the Shechina left him, and the Sanhedrin separated themselves from him. He was inflicted
                with leprosy, as it is written Ps. 51,
                    9
                Purge me from sin with hyssop,
                    etc. The Shechina left him, as it is written
                        Ib., ib., 14
                Restore unto me the gladness of Thy salvation.
                The Sanhedrin separated themselves from him, as it is
                written Ib. 119, 79
                Let those that fear Thee return unto me and they that
                    know Thy testimonies. That all this lasted fully six months — when do we
                learn it ? From the following passage I Kings, 2,
                        11
                And the days that David
                    reigned over Israel were forty years; (Ib. b) In Hebron he reigned thirty-three
                    years over all Israel and Judah. Hence we see that the six months more
                which are counted in II Samuel are not counted in
                    I Kings, and this was because the six months in
                which he was inflicted with leprosy were not counted."
            Ps. 86, 17
                Display on me a sign for good, etc. Thus said David before the Holy One, praised be He! "Sovereign of the universe, forgive me this
                sin of Bath Sheba."
            "Thou art forgiven," answered the Lord. David then said to the Lord : "Show me a sign while I live."
            Whereupon He answered, "During thy life I shall not make it known
                but during the life of Solomon, thy son, I shall make
                it known." When Solomon had built the Temple
            he desired to place the ark in the holy
                of holies, but the gates had become fastened to each
            other and they could not be opened. Solomon then
            offered twenty-four prayer-songs but was not answered. He then said the prayer
                    Ps. 24, 9
            Raise your heads, O ye gates, and raise up, ye everlasting
                doors, and let the King of glory enter. Who is the
                    King of glory, the Lord
                    of Hosts, He is the King of glory,
                    Selah
            II Chr. 6, l2. Still he was not answered; but as soon as he said O Lord God, turn not away the face of Thy anointed, remember
                the pious deeds of David Thy servant, he was
                immediately answered. At that moment the faces of David's enemies turned black like the bottom of a pot and then it was known
            to all that the Holy One, praised be He ! had forgiven David that sin.