Fol. 30a The following question was asked of R. Tanchum of Noy: "Is it permissible to
                extinguish the light on the Sabbath for the sake of a sick person ?" He began his answer by
            saying: "O thou King
                    Solomon! Where is thy wisdom and where is thy understanding ? Not only do
                the words contradict your father's words but they are at variance with thine own
                utterances also. Thy father David said Ps. 116, 17.
                Not the dead can praise the Lord, and thou sayest Ecc.
                        4, 2.
                Thereupon praise I the dead that are already
                    dead, and again thou sayest Ib. 9.,
                        4.
                For a living dog fareth better than a dead
                    lion. But this is not difficult to explain. When David said. Not the dead can praise the Lord, he
                meant thus: 'A man should always occupy himself with the
                    study of the Torah and meritorious deeds before he dies;
                    for, as soon as he dies, he becomes free from the obligation of studying the
                        Torah and fulfilling meritorious deeds and the
                        Holy One, praised be He! accepts no praise of
                    him.' This is what R. Jochanan said : 'What is meant by the passage Ps. 88, 61. Free among the dead,
                    i.e., as soon as a man dies he is freed from the obligation of studying the
                        Torah and fulfilling meritorious deeds, And when
                        Solomon says Ecc. 4. 2. Thereupon praise I
                    the dead that are already dead, he refers to the time when Israel sinned in the
                    deserts. Moses stood up before the Holy One, praised be He ! and offered many prayers and
                    supplications unto Him but was not answered. However, as soon as he said
                            Ex 32, 13. Remember
                        Abraham, Isaac
                    and Israel, Thy servants, he was forthwith
                    answered. Now, did not Solomon say properly
                    Thereupon praise I the dead that are already dead.'" It may be
            explained in another way also. The usage of the world is that if a mortal prince issue a
            decree, it is doubtful whether it will be complied with or not; even if it be complied
            with while the prince lives it may not be complied with when he is dead. But Moses, our teacher, has issued many decrees and established
            many ordinances and they endure forever and ever. Now did not Solomon say properly Ecc. 4,
                2. Thereupon praise I the dead that are already dead! The passage,
            Thereupon praise I the dead, etc., may also be explained in another way, as R. Juda said in the name of Rab ; for R. Juda in the name of Rab said : "What is meant by the passage Ps. 86, 17.
                Display on me a sign for good that those who hate me may see
                    it. Thus said David before the Holy One, praised be He!
                'Sovereign of the
                        universe, forgive me this sin of Bath
                        Sheba.'
                'Thou art forgiven.' answered the Lord. David then said to the Lord : 'Show me a sign while I live.'
                Whereupon He answered, 'During thy life I shall not make it
                    known but during the life of Solomon, thy son, I
                    shall make it known.'
                When Solomon had built the Temple he desired to place the ark in the holy of holies, but the
                    gates had become fastened to each other and they could not be opened. Solomon then offered twenty-four prayer-songs but
                    was not answered. He then began the prayer Ps.
                            24, 7.
                    Raise your heads, O ye gates and be raised wide, ye
                        everlasting gates, and let the king of glory
                        enter. Thereupon the gates ran after him and opened their mouths and wanted
                        to swallow him up, saying: Who is the King of
                            glory?
                    Ib.
                    Solomon replied. The
                            Lord, strong and mighty
                    Ib.. He
                        then repeated Raise your heads, O ye gates, and raise up, ye everlasting
                        doors, and let the King of glory enter. Who
                        is the King of glory, the Lord of Hosts, He is the King of glory, Selah
                    
                        Ib.. Still he was not answered ; but
                    as soon as he said O Lord
                            God turn not away the face of thy anointed, remember the pious
                        deeds of David thy servant,
                    II Chr. 6, 12, he was
                    immediately answered. At that moment the faces
                        of David's enemies turned black like the bottom
                        of a pot and then it was known to all that the Holy
                            One, praised be He! had forgiven David that sin. Therefore, did not Solomon properly say. Thereupon, praise I the dead, etc. This is meant by the passage
                        I Kings 8, 66.
                On the eighth day he dismissed the people;
                    they blessed the king and went unto their tents, glad of heart, because of all
                    the good that the Lord had done for David his servant and for Israel his people, i.e.. And they went unto
                    their tents, meaning they found their wives levitically pure. Joyful, because of
                    having enjoyed the Divine Glory; glad of heart,
                    each man's wife had become pregnant with a male child; because of all the good
                    which God had done unto David
                    his servant, that he forgave him that sin; and Israel his people, for they were
                    forgiven their neglect of the observance of the day of Atonement. And when Solomon said Ecc. 9,
                    4.
            For a
                    living dog fareth better than a dead lion, he meant that which
                R. Juda said in the name of Rab ; for
                R. Juda in the name of Rab, said:
                "What is meant by the passage Ps. 39, 5.
                Let me know, O Lord, my end, and
                    what the measure of my days is, I wish to know when I shall cease to be,
                i.e., thus said David before the Holy One, praised be He ! 'Sovereign of the universe let me know
                    my end.' Whereupon the Lord answered him : 'It has been decreed by me that the time of the death of mortal
                    man shall not be known;'
                'And the measures of my days what
                        are they'
                Ib., David again asked. 'It is decreed by me'
                answered the Lord,' that the measure of
                    the days of a man shall not be known.' Again David asked: 'I wish to know when I shall cease to
                    be.' The Lord then said to him : 'Thou wilt die on the Sabbath.'
                'Let me die rather on the first day of the week,'
                begged David. 'The first day of
                    the week is the day on which thy son Solomon
                    shall be king, and one kingdom must not encroach on the other even by so much as
                    a hair's breath.'
                'Let me then die on the Sabbath
                    eve,' pleaded David. Whereupon the Lord said Far better is a day in thy
                    courts than a thousand
                Ps. 84, 11, i.e., 'I like one day in which thou art studying the Torah better than a thousand burnt offerings which Solomon, thy son, will sacrifice before me upon
                    the altar.' (Ib. b) Each Sabbath day he
                would sit and study. On that Sabbath when he was to
                die, the angel of death came and stood before
                him, but was unable to do anything because David never
                once ceased studying. Said the angel to
                himself What shall I do? There was an
                orchard in the back of David's house; the angel of death went there and shook the trees.
                    David hearing the noise went out to see the
                cause of the noise ; as he ascended the ladder the angel caused it to break. David fell down
                and consequently stopped studying; whereupon the angel of death took his life. It so happened that Solomon sent to ask the following questions in the
                    academy: 'My father died
                    and lies in sun; what shall I do? Am I allowed to remove him from the sun? And
                    the dogs of my father's house are hungry, what shall I do?' They
                answered him: 'Cut up a carrion and place the pieces before
                    the dogs. As to thy father, place a loaf of bread or an infant upon his body and
                    then you may carry it away from the sun.' Did not Solomon, therefore, say properly? For a living dog fareth better than a dead lion. And
                as to the question, which I have been asked in your presence, I say this: a lamp is called
                        Ner and the soul is called
                        Ner; it is better that a human light
                        lamp be extinguished
                than that God's light life be extinguished."