Lev. 9:1 And it came to pass on the eighth day…. This text is related to Ps. 75:5, “I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry….’” What is the meaning of [the words], 
            I say to the merrymakers rt.: hll, ‘do not make merry rt.: hll?’4 [The verse refers] to whoever sings in a mahanaim dance mahol,5 and so it says in Jud. 21:21, to 
                dance lehol in the dances. [Because no happiness endures for a mortal] Ps. 75:5, “I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry rt.: hll.’” Why? The one who is happy 
            today shall not be happy tomorrow; and the one who is depressed today shall not be depressed tomorrow. And so it says in Eccl. 2:2, Of laughter I said, ‘It is mad 
                rt.: hll….’6 Are you willing to understand? As behold, even the happiness of the Holy One, blessed be He, did not endure. When? When the Holy One, blessed be He, created 
            His world. He was very happy, as stated in Ps. 104:31, the Lord shall be happy in His works. It also says in Gen. 1:31, Then God saw everything which He had made; and 
                behold, it was very good. [These verses are] to teach you that the Holy One, blessed be He, found pleasure in and took pride in His works. Then He gave the first Adam an easy 
            commandment, but he did not fulfill it. Immediately He rendered him a verdict7 [of death], as stated in Gen. 3:19, for dust you are, and unto dust you shall return. So He, 
            as it were, did not remain in His happiness but said, “I created everything only for the human, and now he dies. What pleasure is there for Me? [Now surely if the Holy One, 
            blessed be He,] did not remain [happy], how much the less shall people [remain happy! It is therefore stated in Ps. 75:5, I say to the merrymakers, ‘do not make merry.’] 
            How happy Abraham was! He was blessed in the world, magnified, slew some kings and handed over heaven and earth to the Holy One, blessed be He. Also when the Holy One, blessed 
            be He, gave him a son at age one hundred, he circumcised him and reared him. Then finally he was told in Gen. 22:2, Please take your son, your only son…, [and go unto the 
                land of Moriah,] and offer him there as a burnt offering. So he made a three-day journey, as stated in Gen. 22:4, On the third day…. When he returned from Mount Moriah, 
            he buried Sarah. He did not find a place to bury her until he bought one for four hundred silver shekels. Then after that, old age came upon him. Now surely if such was the 
            case with Abraham the righteous, how much the more is it the case with the wicked! Isaac did not remain in his happiness: He escaped from the sword and from the men of Gerar. 
            And [God] informed them about who he was, so that they came to him. Thus it is stated in Gen. 26:26, 28, Then Abimelech came unto him from Gerar […. And they said, ‘We 
                have clearly seen that the Lord is with you.’] But he did not remain in his happiness. Rather according to Gen. 27:1, “Now it came to pass, that when Isaac was old and his 
                    eyes were too weak to see.” So just as [this loss of happiness] happened in the case of Isaac the burnt offering of the Holy One, blessed be He, according to Gen. 22:2, how 
            much the more does it happen in the case of the wicked! Jacob was the first-born of the Holy One, blessed be He, as stated in Exod. 4:22, Israel is My first-born son. How 
            happy he was! He saw a ladder, and according to Gen. 28:12-13 the angels of god were ascending and descending [….] And behold, the Lord stood upon it and said, I am the 
                Lord…. Then he went to Laban, fled from Esau, became Laban's servant for twenty years and in the end became wealthy, sired children and returned in peace. He also met Esau 
            and was saved from him, and paid his vow. But in the end he did not remain in his happiness. Instead according to Gen. 34:1, Now Dinah [the daughter whom Leah had borne to 
                Jacob] went out…, and was raped]. There also came upon him the trouble over Joseph. Now surely if Jacob the righteous – one to whom the Holy One, blessed be He, had said, In 
                    whom I will be glorified, as stated in Is. 49:3, Israel, in whom I will be glorified – did not remain in his happiness, how much the less will the wicked [so remain! It is 
            therefore stated in Ps. 75:5, I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry.’] How happy Joshua was! He slew thirty-one kings, gave Israel the land to possess, and 
            distributed it. In addition all Israel gave him a [helping] hand and said in Josh. 1:18, Anyone who disobeys your command… [shall be put to death. Such an honor was] 
            something of which [even] Moses our master did not merit. Still he i.e., Joshua did not remain in his happiness, but rather died childless. It is therefore stated in Ps. 
                75:5, I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make merry.’ How happy Eli was, when he was king, chief justice, and high priest! It is so stated in I Sam. 1:9, now Eli [the 
                    priest] was sitting on the throne by the doorpost of the Temple of the Lord. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the throne, because he was king. [He was] by the doorpost of 
                        the Temple of the Lord, because he was chief justice. Still he did not remain in his happiness. Instead according to I Sam. 4:18, And it came to pass that when he i.e., a 
                            messenger mentioned the ark of God, he i.e., Eli fell backward from off the throne…. Moreover, his two sons, Hophni and Phinehas died. So just as this [shift in fortune] 
            happened with Eli the righteous, how much the more [does it happen with] the wicked! You find neither man nor woman who saw joys like Elisheba bat Amminadab, [the wife of 
            Aaron, as stated in Exod. 6:23, And Aaron took for a wife Elisheba bat Amminadab].8 She saw her husband become high priest serving in the high priesthood and [as a] 
            prophet. In addition, Moses, her husband's brother, was king and prophet. Moreover, her sons were deputies [to the high priest] in the priesthood, and her brother Nahshon 
            was head of all of the princes of Israel.9 Still she did not remain in her happiness. Rather, when two of her sons went in to offer a sacrifice, according to Lev. 10:2, 
            Fire came forth from before the Lord and consumed them, so that they died before the Lord. It is therefore stated in Ps. 75:5, I say to the merrymakers, ‘Do not make 
                merry.’ And so Solomon said in Eccl. 2:2, Of laughter I said, ‘It is mad.’ There is a story about one of the great Babylonian [scholars], who married off his son,10 and 
            made a great banquet for the sages. He said to his son, Go up and bring us a jar of such and such a wine from the attic. He went up to the attic. [There] a snake [from] 
                among the jars bit him, and he died. His father remained with those who were reclining [at his table]. So he delayed and did not come. [Finally,] his father said, Let me go 
                    up and see what my son is doing. His father went up [and] found him cast down dead among the jars. What did that saint do? He waited by himself until the guests had eaten 
                and drunk sufficiently. When they had finished, he said, You came to say a bridegrooms' blessing over my son. [But instead] say a mourners' blessing over him. You came to 
                    bring my son to the wedding canopy. [Instead] bring him to [his] grave. They said about R. Zakkay of Kabul and they opened about him in the words of Eccl. 2:2, Of 
                        laughter I said, ‘It is mad; and what does joy do?’