Joseph, who honored
                the Sabbath, had a very rich neighbor. This neighbor
                was told by the Chaldeans soothsayers that all his wealth would eventually be
                eaten up by Joseph. The neighbor, therefore, sold his
                estate and with the proceeds bought a large diamond, which he fixed in his turban.
                One day, while crossing a bridge, a gust of wind blew his turban into the water and
                a fish swallowed it. This fish being caught was brought to the market on a
                Friday. "Who wants to buy fish to-day?" they
                inquired. They were told to go to Joseph, who honors
                the Sabbath and usually buys fish that day. So they
                brought the fish to him and he bought it. When the fish was cut up, the jewel was
                found and Joseph sold it for thirteen purses of gold
                denarim. When that old man met him, he said to Joseph:
                    "He, who lends to the Sabbath
                    incurring additional expenses in its honor the Sabbath will
                    repay."
            Rabbi asked R. Ishmael, the son
            of R. Jose, "What merited the rich people
                of Palestine who become so wealthy?" He answered thus: "Because they gave their tithes in due season, as it is said
                        Deu. 14, 22. Thou
                shalt tithe the tithe, i.e., give tithes, in order that thou mayest become
                rich."
            'What merited the rich of Babylon where people are exempt from
                tithes ?'
            "Because," said R. Ishmael,
                "they honor the Torah."
            "And what merited the rich of other countries that made them so
                wealthy ?"
            "Because," said he, "they
                honored the Sabbath ; for R.
                    Chiya b. Abba said : 'I sojourned once with a wealthy man in Ludki. and I saw that they
                        brought before him a golden table carried by sixteen men, and having sixteen
                        silver links depending from it ; in these links were fixed bowls, cups,
                        pitchers and dishes, all filled with various kinds of victuals, and all
                        sorts of rare fruits and spices. When setting the table, they said: Unto the Lord belongs the
                            earth with what filleth it
                        Ps. 24, 1. And when they
                        removed the table, they said The heavens are the
                            heavens of the Lord; but the earth hath he given
                            to the children of men
                        Ib. 115, 16. I said to him
                            'My son, how have you merited this
                            prosperity?' He said to me: 'I was
                            formerly a butcher, and I always selected the finest cattle to be
                            slaughtered for the Sabbath.' I
                        then said to him : 'Happy art thou for being
                            so merited and blessed be the Lord who hath
                            rewarded thee with all this.' "