When R. Dimi came from Palestine, he said in the name of R. Jonathan, "what is the
                meaning of the passage Ps. 24, 2 For upon seas he hath founded it, and upon rivers he hath
                    established it? i.e. the seven seas and four rivers which surround the
                land of Israel Palestine, the seven seas are the seas of Tiberia,
                Sodom, Chirat, Chiltha, Sipchi, Aspamia, and the ocean; and the four rivers are
                Jordan, Jarmuch, Kirumyun, and Phiga." When R. Dimi
            came, he said in the name of R. Jonathan : "In the future the angel Gabriel
                Fol. 75 will go hunting for the leviathan, as it is said Job 40,
                    25
                Canst thou draw out the crocodile
                    leviathan with a
                    fishhook or cause his tongue to sink into the baited rope? And if not for
                the help of the Holy One, praised be He ! he would not
                conquer him, as it is said Ib.
                He is the first in rank . . . he that hath made him can
                    alone bring his sword near to him." When R.
                Dimi came, he said also in the name of R. Jochanan
            : "When the leviathan
                becomes hungry, he expels from his mouth a gas which makes all the waters in the
                deep boil, as it is said Ib. 41, 23
                He maketh the deep to boil like a pot. And should he put
                    his head in paradise, not one of the creatures could withstand the bad smell of
                    the gas, as it is said Ib.
                He maketh the sea like a seething mixture. And when he gets
                    thirsty, he makes the sea hollow like beds, as it is said: Behind him he causeth his pathway to shine."
            And R. Acha b. Jacob said : "The deep does not come to its natural way before seventy
                years, as it is said Ib.
                Men esteem the deep to be hoary — and hoary is not
                less than seventy years."