Our Rabbis taught: "It is prohibited to enjoy anything of this
                world without saving a benediction, and he who enjoys the least thing in this
                world without saving a benediction defrauds the Lord. What
                shall his remedy be? Let him go to a learned man." What can a learned man do
            for him when he already has transgressed the prohibition? "But," said Raba, "let him go
                unto a learned man first; study the laws of benedictions that he may avoid
                sacrilege."
            R. Juda said in the name of Samuel
            : "He who enjoys the least thing in this world
                without having said a benediction is considered as if he had enjoyed something of
                the things dedicated to Heaven, for it is said Ps.
                        24, 1. Unto the Lord belongeth the earth
                and all that filleth it."
            R. Levi pointed out the following contradiction: "It is written Ib.
                    ib.
                Unto the Lord belongeth the earth
                    and all that filleth it, and it is also written Ib. 115, I6.
                The Heavens are the Heavens of the Lord; but the earth hath He given to the children of man. It is
                not difficult to reconcile these two verses. The former refers to the time before
                he pronounced the benediction it still belongs to
                    Heaven, (Ib. b.) and the latter refers to the time after he pronounced
                the benediction then it belongs to man."
            R. Chanina b. Papa said: "He who enjoys anything in this world without saying a
                benediction is considered as if he has robbed the Holy
                One, praised be He! and the Congregation of Israel, for it is said Pr. 28, 24.
                Whoso robbeth his father or his mother and saith it is
                    no transgression, he is the companion of a destroyer. His father, refers
                to the Holy One, praised be He! as it is said Deu. 32, 6.
                Is He not thy father who hath bought thee; Or
                his mother, refers to nothing else but the Congregation of Israel., as it is said
                        Pr. 1, 8.
                Hear, my son, the instructions of your father and cast
                    not aside the teaching of your mother." What is meant by He is a
            companion of a destroyer? R. Chanina b. Papa said:
                 "He is a companion of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who has
                corrupted Israel in their relation to their Heavenly
                    Father."