Fol. 31 We are taught in a Baraitha: R. Juda said,
            in the name of R. Akiba: What
                song did the Levites chant on the first day of the week? Ps. 24
                The earth is the Lord's and the
                    fulness thereof, because He the Lord, in establishing the
                    world took possession and gave His creatures possession invested them
                        with life, and became the Sovereign of the world. What
                did they sing on the second day? Ib. 48
                Great is the Lord and greatly to be
                    praised, because on that day He divided His works the heavens from the earth
                    and reigned over them. On the third day they sang Ib. 82
                God standeth in the congregation of the
                    mighty, because on that day He, in His wisdom, caused the earth to be revealed
                    and the world to be prepared for its occupants. On the fourth day they
                sang Ib. 94
                O Lord, to whom retribution belongeth,
                    because on that day He created the sun and moon, and in the future He will
                    punish those who would worship them. On the fifth day they sang
                        Ib. 81
                Sing aloud unto God, our strength,
                    because on that day He created the birds and the fishes which bring praise
                    to His name. On the sixth day they sang, Ib. 93
                The Lord reigneth. He is clothed in
                    majesty, because on that day He finished His works and became sovereign over
                    them. On the seventh day they sang Ib.
                        92
                A psalm, a song, for the Sabbath
                        day; i.e., for the day that is a perfect rest."
            R. Nechemia said : "What
                reason had R. Akiba to make distinctions among these
                sections, for the last refers to a future event, while all the others refer to the
                past ? We must therefore say that they sang that psalm on the Sabbath day, because He rested." This is
            contrary to the opinion of R. K'tina, for R. K'tina said: "The world will last six
                thousand years, and one thousand years it will be waste; as it is said Is. 2, 11
                And exalted shall be the Lord alone
                    on that day"
            
                Abaye, however, said: "Two thousand years it will waste; as
                it is said Hos. 6, 2
                He will revive us after two days."